Sambhav Mehta: Keep it
Sambhav Mehta: another check in before our final understanding of this 1st session on Thursday.
Sambhav Mehta: So did I integrate with synthesis
Sambhav Mehta: what we're seeing for when we talk about why? For the why is one to 3 formal job seekers. Okay? So going back to this format of the
Sambhav Mehta: what's your situation. I want to accomplish this goal. So I can achieve Xyz End result. Going back to this, we want one to 3 of these supported by evidence. So going back to your interview transcripts picking out high energy quotes, if it's not supported by the data you're receiving in those interviews, it's not. It's not real, and you'll be, you'll be building on. So really focusing on those quotes where you're finding the highest energy. Probably.
Sambhav Mehta: So before the presentation brief job statement you want to see enforces
Sambhav Mehta: the habits, anxieties, push and pull which you should have from your debriefs after each interview. Should have been for sirens group each of these interviews
Sambhav Mehta: the motivations. Remember your your circle of functional, emotional, and social motivations. Why are people? What extra external factors are are acting on people.
Sambhav Mehta: So how we're we're looking at this
Sambhav Mehta: the competitors or existing alternatives for your segment. So what is the group currently doing to solve their problems. Where are they at at the time you're reaching them, especially if they're not user of your product.
Sambhav Mehta: and then quotes huge on the data. If you
Sambhav Mehta: want to refer back taking another flip through one on one would be a great thing to do tonight. Especially now that we have a little bit of time to look at this, the system that's outlined there.
Sambhav Mehta: So to give an example of a full, why, before the wire report, this is posted in base camp. We keep running that.
Sambhav Mehta: But
Sambhav Mehta: the origin of why, before the why originates with. So if you remember, from the earlier understanding your customer workshops, the the hair on fire base camp, little graphics like why people ended up coming to base camp because they were missing deadlines and using information.
Sambhav Mehta: this is essentially what we're what Jake turned back to when he was putting together. What? When? Why, after
Sambhav Mehta: conducting all of his interviews. So he landed on 4 clusters or customer stories, essentially job statements.
Sambhav Mehta: And here those are. So 1st off, there's gotta be a better way to spend my time.
Sambhav Mehta: So people who were feeling incompetent, feeling like they were wasting their time wanted to work on a new skill, useless. So super here, almost like an identity thing, and you can see how he explains in detail their situations where they're finding themselves the moment they
Sambhav Mehta: look at zest and sort of the situation that's pushing them towards this this new solution.
Sambhav Mehta: I don't offer enough to the people I care about so super super social here. He outlines some of the timeline elements, how their loved ones are interacting with them.
Sambhav Mehta: And he stopped eating shitty food. So this one he actually didn't focus on early on, but ended up coming back to this profile pretty recently.
Sambhav Mehta: he started off with with this. It's like his 1st
Sambhav Mehta: to the customer, with the highest energy, the highest paying this
Sambhav Mehta: understanding like the end game of this and business, he ended up choosing this program that he's expanding to
Sambhav Mehta: approach and target different profiles as he's moved through.
Sambhav Mehta: and then the final one, how can I get my friends to help with me?
Sambhav Mehta: So I think
Sambhav Mehta: Neil correct me? But it started with. I don't offer enough to people I care about. Thank you to. How can I get my friends sitting out with me?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Number 4, got really, big, yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: And then
Sambhav Mehta: this one kind of shows up in his dual window for cooking, messaging that he's adopted more recently. And now he's conducting additional interviews to see how we can better
Sambhav Mehta: support people who are really home conscious. So when you're looking at these profiles, some of them, it's it's not going to be a never. But you are going to choose people who are the highest energy to focus on. Now as we get into growth, that's sort of the end results
Sambhav Mehta: in terms of what we're asking you for tomorrow.
Sambhav Mehta: We're gonna ask for your full reports on basecamp if you have them, and then we're asking for a 4 or 5 min presentation of the top 2 to 3 insights the jobs to be done. Process that you've done so far.
Sambhav Mehta: So the insights can be like, what's surprising, what's the most interesting. First, st we'll go through examples of alumni presentations momentarily. But basically, as you're putting this whole
Sambhav Mehta: document together, things will jump out as as the biggest things you want to talk about with the group within the areas you need support. If you want those jobs
Sambhav Mehta: do your best, take a stab at this. If you're truly too early to have any form of synthesis or like
Sambhav Mehta: larger, more developed understanding here. Treat it as another checkpoint presentation. Tell us what you need next, to keep moving along through this process and use it to get support from the group and improve this process over.
Sambhav Mehta: and then, Neil, and go through this whole business
Sambhav Mehta: once you're finished with it. But everyone is gonna present for 5 min. Give or take for 5 min, and we do want to see the top 3 things that are interesting. And if you can see the most.
Sambhav Mehta: The only thing to add on, send us a.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, this will be dissimilar to what we did 4 weeks ago. Together in week one when we talked this out before we headed off for the retreat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But just know that, like our expectation is that many of you have made a lot more progress since then. Some of you might still be struggling, and we'll help you. But this is our like final real
Neal Sáles-Griffin: wave of jobs to be done like time. Aside from the masterclass that we'll schedule with Bob towards the end of the program. So we're moving into growth.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know, product development sales
Neal Sáles-Griffin: fundraising like, that's the rest of this program. So just to be clear like, this is our way of basically saying.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, go off into the jungle and figure it out. Otherwise you get one on one time with me and and otherwise, and get support on this.
Sambhav Mehta: That's yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: just a quick question. So for the beginning of the slide is like one to 3 states. So each of those statements. So, for example, you presented for Jake each of those statements is that like a combination of 8 to 12? Or is that like A
Sambhav Mehta: instead of like all the Jtvds that you've done, and then you put these 4 statements. Great great question. So he did his 10 to 12 interviews, and then over the course, these 10 to 12 interviews. He looked at the force diagrams and pulled in groups that emerged from within that
Sambhav Mehta: process. So he found that people gravitated into these 4 buckets
Sambhav Mehta: from the the set of interviews did excellent
Sambhav Mehta: oops.
Sambhav Mehta: So this is A. b 2 b. Example from Club, Rev. Our. Oakland, 2024.
Sambhav Mehta: So they were a they were focused on recruiting. And here's just their presentation in full, their main thing exactly who they were looking to interview. So they included their screening criteria, which is a great context reset, because many screening criteria change over time.
Sambhav Mehta: So if you've updated your script screen criteria, it's a great thing to include here. The other thing is up to their learning question. So they were starting. They started off as application an applicant tracking system, and they were exploring. That was the like, the primary thing where they thought it was touching. This is what we need to explore and better understand? Are we better off? Being an additional tool for agencies versus standard
Sambhav Mehta: that makes sense.
Sambhav Mehta: So the
Sambhav Mehta: more more on their context, like what they brought into the process.
Sambhav Mehta: And then here is where we get into their statements overall. So the why before the Y here is my team is on the lead
Sambhav Mehta: very high energy very high, and that's where they came in. They found that a lot of people had recruiters who were getting burned out and overwhelmed, and the volume of hiring was too high, and they were afraid that they were gonna lose their teams because the workload was was too much.
Sambhav Mehta: So below. You can see their job statement for this. For this cluster I have recruiters getting overwhelmed, overburdened. I want to alleviate their stress and bring on additional hiring support so that I can avoid attrition while still getting our hiring
Sambhav Mehta: so super clear. You understand exactly where these people are at, why they're shopping for different tools. Why, they're hiring additional support in the form of club Rec or additional tools, whatever that may be.
Sambhav Mehta: Their second cluster was, my recruiters were seen as incompetent. So this was pretty social it was. How was my my business being seen by candidates? How mapping to the public image?
Sambhav Mehta: Pretty, very processes. 1st question for a lot of folks so wanting to keep that clean
Sambhav Mehta: make sure that they're representing their company with specific skills and expertise, and avoiding for recruiters and their team for any hiring issues. So
Sambhav Mehta: another interesting one there, final one. I don't want to leave a bad taste in candidates. Mouth.
Sambhav Mehta: So this is larger scale. Here candidates can become competitors, customers discuss their personal experiences, also their social positive experiences and questions of the company. So their recommendation is.
Sambhav Mehta: So then they got into applications. To these insights. How are they gonna add these insights to sales, marketing, and product? So
Sambhav Mehta: they they gave a very high, level, simple overview of what their next steps were. From editing their messaging website and outreach to better show how coverage targets the specific pain points outlined, and they ended up starting off with with this as their their highest pain point that they targeted.
Sambhav Mehta: and then, as a sort of appendix. They didn't go through all this in their presentation, but they included a high level force diagram of what they found, and then
Sambhav Mehta: only been simple.
Sambhav Mehta: Next up we have Travaris. So you'll remember J. Lo! From the building, cross culture and all of my family.
Sambhav Mehta: So, Neil, these travel companies hates hate saints, and this this actually converted.
Sambhav Mehta: So he like
Sambhav Mehta: he's like founder bet for Jlo. Everything like her, not sold on entrepreneurs all until she put together this set of insights. It was like, Okay.
Sambhav Mehta: oh, a leader.
Sambhav Mehta: So consumer company.
Sambhav Mehta: they started out techstars as a regenerative travel market. So very sustainability focused to planet. And it was gonna be a true marketplace connecting consumers with providers. These travel experience.
Sambhav Mehta: So the 1st cluster that they found is I am paying for them to care about the things that the things that I care about. So folks who like nice things want to spend money on them, send them up and make the most of their limited time off finding special places, makes us feel good, and allows us to relax and be conscious of our health, and the planet validates our choices and allows us to fully let go of any lingered guilt.
Sambhav Mehta: And you can see they included the 3 interviews that made up this cluster here. So if you want to attribute the exact names and interview numbers to keep you on track of, like the energy that each group has. You'll do that.
Sambhav Mehta: You don't need beautiful graphics. J. Lo has a an on staffing, anything gorgeous it can be really like like. But
Sambhav Mehta: here we're seeing that it's it's not maybe, clerk, because
Sambhav Mehta: this is really different to the Rah rah planet. I want to find things that make the planet feel good. So through this process, she discovered that it's it's about guilt, and it's about would be willing to pay a little extra to alleviate larger, larger guilt about stability. There's this extra layer of social and emotional layers to this versus just the functional.
Sambhav Mehta: I want to do good for the planet. It's like an identity thing. So a lot more depth we're seeing here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The one really nice touch that they added to this was coding the interviewees associated with the insight
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from all the people that they spoke to. I really like that extra 10.
Sambhav Mehta: Here she included the existing alternatives on how people are are sort of solving for this problem now. So she didn't include her screening criteria. But her screening criteria was people who had hired a regenerative travel service or had actively sought out.
Sambhav Mehta: So things that are like marketed towards sustainability, but like wanted to understand why people were like on whatever service, whether it's travel agents, additional research tools that you have, that that's what she was trying to dig into.
Sambhav Mehta: So you can also see here her analysis of what that means for tobars, how she's thinking about targeting, how she's thinking about messaging, and how she's thinking about enabling the targeting of these specific groups
Sambhav Mehta: for closer to this one was huge. She had not been thinking about this at all, but the bluster is, I don't want to be that American tourist, and this actually made it into her demonic like this exact mind. So I love to go to new places all over the world and enjoy the immersion cultures, people and food. But I want to make sure I get it right. I don't offend anyone, and I definitely don't just want to be surrounded by other wherever I go.
Sambhav Mehta: So some of you probably relate to this like not wanting to stick out like a sore thumb as at American first, st but just so, so.
Sambhav Mehta: so, so so social. Not even like any emotional aspects of sustainability, aren't there at all. This is about feeling like a local. And I think it's the place on the cultural level. The sustainability goals that that Jlo had front and center aren't part of this.
Sambhav Mehta: And she realized that she was projecting her values onto the customers. And it's a huge swaps of people that she could have taken advantage of before. So this ended up being her focus right on that. After she
Sambhav Mehta: completed this process, she found that that messaging was
Sambhav Mehta: really effective to implement it made it into a demo package, all of that.
Sambhav Mehta: So this this ended up being really taken too further.
Sambhav Mehta: So you can see the existing alternatives. How we're solving the problem now and the consistency of the language that you have this coming up. So if you see any like repeated language patterns like that. It probably won't be quite so obvious as this, like consumer example. But really pay attention to like high energy tones, clusters.
Sambhav Mehta: and then she's got her a little bit on how she can support this particular group of travelers.
Sambhav Mehta: Her 3rd cluster she kind of grew up watching. So in the high level
Sambhav Mehta: would recommend doing sort of subgroups, because the ultimate
Sambhav Mehta: the ultimate conclusion here was that this group was a little too fractured, and there wasn't enough sort of shared pain for it to be a larger market. But she sort of brought these people together over the larger theme of identifying with the I go
Sambhav Mehta: sort of mantra and like having an identity
Sambhav Mehta: focus on being kind of like, not like slip travel planning.
Sambhav Mehta: So this 1st group of parents was around wanting to share unique cultural experiences with their kids. But needing to combine that with more luxury and safety now that they have kids. I long for the way I used to travel, spontaneously immersive and focusing on
Sambhav Mehta: having needing more of a routine to travel and not being able to be as spontaneous while having kids. This was also, this sort of parent need. She targeted on a smaller scale for a little bit.
Sambhav Mehta: She she got into the lobby groups to to talk to people about this.
Sambhav Mehta: And there's more sort of context here. And then again, yeah, she highlights the identities. How important it was! And then she had a free C as well.
Sambhav Mehta: wanting to maximize my time and find the perfect balance between going to urban region. So combining those 2 features of vacations and bringing together.
Sambhav Mehta: And then here's a summary of her functional, social, and emotional forces here. Or motivations.
Sambhav Mehta: I don't believe she actually presented this, but she had it in her attendance an aggregated force diagram.
Sambhav Mehta: And then what she did present was her total, like her overall insights, that her regenerative marketplace became more immersive. Travel experience and targeted additional customer segments who weren't so focused on sustainability.
Sambhav Mehta: So she changed her messaging and value prop to cater to a wider group of people, and better reflect the needs of the people who were finding these people were finding her, and they they just. She had been projecting her own and her team's motivations onto these people a bit more than it was really relevant, she was able to target her messaging a lot more.
Sambhav Mehta: She also moved from a standard marketplace model into a more concierge travel experience. So was mostly
Sambhav Mehta: file focused on bringing on more and more local experts and personalized itineraries based on people's individual goals, family situations. And that's what brought her to her 1st revenue?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I wanna make sure we leave room for some questions, because I know we're getting close to the end of the time that we scheduled this for.
Sambhav Mehta: So back to the insights
Sambhav Mehta: chat questions.
Sambhav Mehta: Understand what we're asking for.
Sambhav Mehta: We'll post these samples screenshot here tomorrow.
Sambhav Mehta: It's 1 of my takeaways, like some really like the narrative.
Sambhav Mehta: because, like every company, is a little different. For this.
Sambhav Mehta: How much is this in this session? Do like.
Sambhav Mehta: you know, like, you know, make it work for your company
Sambhav Mehta: or whatever you guys are doing for the like structure of the presentation. Well, how many interviews have you done
Sambhav Mehta: so. That's part of the thing is that we we've done a lot of interviews. For realizing that the one that we want to do it in. We have scheduled those. So a lot of the for us, a lot of the a lot of what our analysis is actually more of who we don't want to target a different thing for us.
Sambhav Mehta: This you're all at different stages. This is like a lot of this endgame of the why before the why that we're going to send to route to the challenge. But in the short term, if you can't get to this stage yet. Then, who did you interview? Why did it break? Who are you targeting next? How can we help you find more of those people like
Sambhav Mehta: you're frug it now it it's gonna look different for for
Sambhav Mehta: money. Break box.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All good. I'll see you all tomorrow.
Sambhav Mehta: Right a bunch and see back here.
Sambhav Mehta: Aaron's talk up here, too.
Sambhav Mehta: It's like very long for us.
Sambhav Mehta: What do you want? I was, gonna pass it.
Sambhav Mehta: Why do I have been whatever you want?
Sambhav Mehta: It should try.